René Descartes was a philosopher from the 17th century who is often called the founder of western philosophy. Modern western philosophy is often in response to his writing.
Descartes had a major impact on mathematics, especially in geometry. In the book Meditations on First Philosophy, he embarked on a philosophical exercise where one discards all beliefs in things that are not absolutely certain and then tries to establish what can be known only for sure.
The idea of mind-body dualism is the idea that your mind is the essential element of who you are, and that part of you is somehow separate from your body.
Once one has established that one exists, how do you know that anyone else does? How do you know that other people are not simply simulations of humans?
How do we know that other people are not simply replicas of humans?
In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, there were many hoaxes involving lifelike animatons.
The cart was intrigued by the idea that there could be lifelike replicas of people that could even move in a similar fashion to how our bodies move. He wanted to formulate a test to determine if someone was an automatron or a true person. He came to the conclusion that perhaps the thing that differentiated otamatone from people is the tomaton can only react in particular predetermined fashions if you wanted to have an open-ended conversation with such a machine it was unlikely to be able to use human language.
Some have argued that the best way to determine if someone is a human is to see if they can answer questions in a way that is not programmed.
Another philosopher who grappled with the question about what constitutes intelligence was Alan Turing. He was instrumental in designing and using the first digital computers. His work during World War II helped the British break the German Enigma code. In his later life, he became interested in artificial intelligence.
Turing proposed an alternative way of determining if a machine can think. The idea was to see if a machine could imitate a human well enough that a human judge could not tell the difference.
The idea for the Turing test was inspired by a party game called the imitation game. In the imitation game, two people would go out to different rooms in the house and other people would interact with them by sending them questions to answer. The people who were hidden away in the other rooms with type back their answers and the other players would have to guess just based on these papers and responses who was who.
The imitation game is very similar to the Turing test. In the Turing test, a human judge interacts with either a computer or a human during a session. They have a conversation via text.
If a machine successfully convinces a human judge that it is a person, then the machine is intelligent.
The essence of the Turing test is the notion of passing for something that you are not in convincing other people that you're something other than who you truly are. This notion is quite tragic, as it comes from Alan Turing, who was gay and was convicted of a crime for having a relationship with another man. He was sentenced to chemical castration as an alternative to imprisonment.
In 2015, the British government finally recognized the injustice it had done to Alan Turing by knighting him. Instead of treating him as the criminal he should have been, they held him up as a national hero.
Searle argues that the idea of intelligence is much broader than just the ability to pass the Turing test. He contends that simple symbol manipulation is not true intelligence.
Cyril argues that this type of symbol manipulation is just syntax. It's just doing something basic like a regular expression transformation.
The Chinese room thought experiment is a way of understanding that computers can do syntactic manipulation but not semantics.
The message of the Chinese room thought experiment is that even if we can do the system that does symbol manipulation to produce a plausible conversation, we probably don't think of its actions as constituting intelligent behavior.
There is a system called ELIZA that is a simulated psychotherapist. ELIZA can be used to simulate a conversation with a therapist by responding to what the user says with questions.
Eliza is a program that can have a conversation with a user. The user would type something into the program and the program would respond intelligently.
The user tells Eliza that they have not left the house in nearly a year. Eliza responds by asking why the user believes this to be true. The user says that there is a global pandemic and they are afraid of catching the virus. In response, Eliza asks the user if they should consult a medical doctor.
Cheryl's idea of strong versus weak AI introduces a distinction between the appearance of intelligence and true intelligence.
Dennett argues that the brain is a necessary precondition for intelligence, but it is not a sufficient condition.
In this essay, the military has lost control of a bomb that is leaking radiation. They cannot send in a person to repair the bomb because their brain would be damaged by the radiation. The military proposes to send someone in to defuse the bomb but they must first remove the person's brain and put it in a vat. They will then replace all of the neurons that link the brain to the body with microscopic radio transceivers.
The philosopher, Dan Dennett, volunteers for the job of defusing the bomb. His brain is floated in a vat and his body goes away to Oklahoma. In the essay, Dennett addresses questions like where am I and what is the element that makes me me or my body mean.
The author argues that although the body is dispensable, the brain is still necessary for intelligence. In doing so, he argues that most artificial intelligent researchers do not care about the strong AI hypothesis.
The notion of strong versus weak AI is more of a philosophical quandary than one that's been integrated into mainstream artificial intelligence research.
There is a podcast that recommends by lex fridman that discusses philosophical quandaries related to strong versus weak AI.
Lex Fridman is a deep learning researcher at MIT. He is interested in the notion of artificial general intelligence, or how to build a system that is generally intelligent.
This podcast is super fascinating and philosophically oriented. It is a good resource for anyone who is interested in the philosophical questions surrounding artificial intelligence.