If we are interested in building an artificially intelligent agent we might first pause to ask ourselves what does it mean to be intelligent or perhaps what does it mean to have a mind these are questions that have been debated by philosophers throughout history. One example is a philosopher from the 17th century named rene descartes is often called the founder of western philosophy because a lot of modern western philosophy is directly in response to his writing. Descartes also had a major impact on mathematics especially in geometry where we have cartesian coordinates has a famous quote i think therefore i am from his book meditations on first philosophy in the book descartes embarked on a philosophical exercise where you first discards all beliefs in things that are not absolutely certain and then tries to establish what can be known only for sure even physical experiences like perceptions of the world might be a dream or an illusion created by a demon with i think therefore i am he suggests that one's consciousness implies ones exist. Related to this idea is the idea of mind-body dualism this is the idea that your mind is the essential element your spiritual core the part of you that is you and that part is somehow separate from your corporeal form your body for instance if a part of your body was lost in an accident that doesn't make you any less you than you are right now you're still you and you're still there. Once i've established that i exist how do i know that anyone else does how do i know that other people exist if i cannot be sure that they have a mind what if other people are simply simulations of humans they could be otamatone people's bodies in their appearance could potentially be replicated mechanically. Our bodies and the bodies of animals are basically just complex machines that move and interact with the world muscles could be replaced by cogs or pistons arcam's or so on so how do i know that you aren't just an extremely compelling replica of a human being. Part of the reason that descartes was interested in this topic was that in the seventeenth and eighteenth century it was a big hobbyist industry for building lifelike am times on the left we have a chess-playing otamatone from the 18th century call victor it was built to appear as if it were an artificially intelligent thing that could actually play chess but secretly there was actually someone hidden inside that caused the mechanism to move the pieces around it was a hoax but it was a compelling one to a lot of people at the time on the right we have an actual mechanical automaton that was capable of writing a poem and drawing a picture this one is housed in the franklin science museum in philadelphia so you can check it out. The cart was intrigued by the idea that there could be lifelike replicas of people that could even move in a similar fashion to how our bodies move. He wanted to formulate a test to determine if someone was an automatron or a true person he came to the conclusion that perhaps the thing that differentiated otamatone from people is the tomaton can only react in particular predetermined fashions if you wanted to have an open-ended conversation with such a machine it was unlikely to be able to use human. This is certainly true, towns in the 17th century but does it still hold will see later in the course with the state-of-the-art in natural language generation is will take a look now at some other philosophers who have had similar tests to see if someone was indeed a human or actually an otamatone. Another philosopher who grappled with the question about what constitutes intelligence and what conditions might allow us to be satisfied that something is intelligent was alan turing who is one of the founders of the field of computer science alan turing was instrumental in designing and using the first digital computers back during world war in a place called home to the effort by the british to use computers to break the german enigma code this code-breaking effort by alan turing was one of the most successful applications of the first modern computers alan turing became interested in artificial intelligence. Alan turing decided that that was a very hard question to answer directly instead of trying to directly answer the question can machines think since thinking is too hard to define alan turing proposed an alternative which eventually became known as the turing test the alternative formulation that touring proposed was the question is it possible for a machine to imitate human so plausibly that human judge would be incapable of distinguishing that machine from an actual human being. Trains idea was inspired by a game called the imitation game the imitation game was a party game where two people would go out to different rooms in the house and other people the party would interact with them by sending them questions to answer the people who are hidden away in the other rooms with type back their answers and the other players would have to guess just based on these papers and responses who was who. The imitation game is very similar to turing's formulation of a test for whether a machine can be intelligent in the turing test you have a human judge interacting with either a computer or a human during the session they have a conversation via text. At the end of the session the judge has to say whether they were interacting with a person or with a machine if a machine successfully convinces the judge that he or she was talking to with a person then we'll say that that's sufficient to say that the machine itself is intelligent if a system is capable of passing as a human then it is a thinking machine. The essence of the turing test is that notion of passing a notion of passing for something that you are not in convincing other people that you're something other than who you truly are that notion is actually quite tragic coming from alan turing alan turing was gay and at the time in the united kingdom it was it illegal to be a homosexual turning was caught having a relationship with another man and he was convicted of a crime as a result he was sentenced to chemical castration as an alternative to imprisonment that is a truly horrible thing that manipulates your hormones. Because his work at bletchley park was a tightly help government secret it wasn't until nearly 50 years later that his contributions to computer science were eventually recognized after the efforts would be classified alan turing led the code-breaking effort that effectively allowed the allies in world war ii by breaking the german enigma. And it wasn't until the 2015 knighted kingdom actually recognize what a gross injustice it a done to alan turing instead of treating them as the criminal he should have been held up as a national he. John searle is another philosopher whose work addresses artificial intelligence searle argues that turing's test is insufficient he contends that the turing test could be solved through simple symbol manipulation and argues intuitively that simple symbol manipulation isn't true intelligence. Imagine that i gave a symbol to a machine in the machine simply response by looking that symbol up and performing some predetermined action if you imagine my input symbol to be a turn in a conversation like how are you today then the machine might be able to do a table look up an output a plausible reply like i'm fine how are you cyril contends that this type of symbol manipulation is just syntax it's just doing something basic like a regular expression transformation machine that follows. Cyril proposed an interesting thought experiment called the chinese room the idea is that there's someone working inside a room who receives messages written in chinese and then produces a response to them that's also written in chinese this picture depicts the idea a colleague of the person who's sending and receiving these chinese messages a surprise she says i didn't know that you understand chinese and he replies i don't. And then the cartoon continues to joke about whether that person even understands english when clearly he does the message of sorrows chinese thought experiment is that even if we can do the system that does symbol manipulation to produce a plausible conversation we probably don't think of its actions as constituting intelligent behavior it's just like the person looking at chinese symbols in order to come up with a good chinese response that person doesn't actually understand chinese. There are examples of systems that use rule-based response to imitate a conversation one of the earliest notable ai systems was a system called eliza eliza was a simulated psychotherapist there's a particular style of psychotherapy psychotherapy and they respond by asking you question is non-judgemental and never tries to tell you the underlying reason for what your experience instead. Rogerian psychotherapy is easy to parody you can pretend to be a rogerian psychotherapist but just taking what someone says and transforming it into a question. And you can do this in a deterministic way and in fact that is how that early program eliza work this is a sample transcript of eliza interacting with an actual human interface with me eliza introduces itself saying i am the psychotherapist please describe your problems each time you're finished talking just press return twice so i typed into eliza i'm feeling very isolated. Analyzer responded by saying why do you say that you're feeling very isolated so you can see that this kind of transformation is just taking what i've said and transformed. I feel that i haven't left the house in nearly a year what makes you believe that. There's a global pandemic and i'm afraid to catch the virus i say maybe you should consult a medical doctor i'm just a psychotherapist i feel sad that i can't see my mother. And based on that key word of my mother that triggers eliza to ask you something about my. Eliza is just transforming the user input in the deterministic way to generate its responses devices architecture work similarly to the chinese room symbol manipulation experiment which cyril says is not intelligent. Cheryl's symbol manipulation idea introduces a distinction of the idea of strong versus weak artificial intelligence isn't actually intelligent and is just giving the appearance of intelligence he declares is a weak guy. Because i'm deposit that there must be something about the human brain that causes us to have intelligent and contends that there's something foundational about the biological brain that allows us to have until. I find this argument kind of weak because it would seemingly rule out the possibility that robots or computer programs in the future could ever be until a. The argument that the brain is a necessary precondition for intelligence is taken down by another philosopher called dan dennett he has this fun armchair philosophy experiment which is a creative writing essay where he talks about the fictionalized account of himself being recruited by the us department of defense to go on some secret mission. In this essay the military has lost control of this bomb and leaking a lot of radiation as a result they can't send in a person to repair it because their brain would be damaged by the radio. The military proposes to send someone in to defuse the bomb but they decide that they must first remove that person's brain they proposed to put their brain in a vat and a remote location and replace all of the neurons that link the brain to the body with microscopic radio transceivers. The philosopher dan dennett volunteers for the job since he's deeply interested in neuroscience and thinks that it is his duty as a philosopher. They pick him to do the mission and suing his brain is floating in a vat and his body goes away to oklahoma in the essay dennett addresses questions like where am i and what is the element that makes mimi is the brain floating in a bat me or is my body mean. The perceptions of the brain in the batter all linked to the body in an attempt to debunk suros point about biological brains being necessary then it continues dispensable argument by saying that although he defuse the bomb underneath oklahoma in doing so the radiation body that all the neuro radio links between. Most artificial intelligent researchers don't care about the strong ai hypothesis as long as their programs work i don't really care whether it's a simulation of intelligence or real. This is not going to be a course about philosophy this is about as philosophical as well get in this course but it's really fun to think about things. Notions like strong versus weak air really more of a philosophical quandary than one that's been integrated into mainstream artificial intelligence research. So we'll leave it to the philosopher's to focus on the underpinnings of what makes us intelligent beings and what's necessary to declare a system to be intelligent. In this course we are going to end up focusing more on practical algorithms that will let us build programs that enable some elements of. But if you're interested in these kind of more philosophical quandaries than there's a podcast that recommends by lex fridman. Lex fridman is a deep learning researcher at mit so he's in the technical domain but he's also really interested in this notion of what he calls artificial general intelligence how do we build a system that isn't solving a specific task where a lot of researchers end up focusing on task bay solutions where you they can create a leaderboard for instance to see who can build the best computer vision system to recognize different species of cats instead we might be interested in what does it mean to have a system that would be considered generally intelligent as we would commonly define ontology. This podcast is super fascinating philosophically oriented interviews with people from a range of different disciplines related to ai if you're interested in those philosophical questions even though we're not going to cover them in this class i totally recommend checking it. 